# Wine Analysis with Linear Regression

### Abstract

This project will look at the components of what makes a good red wine. Each variable is a scientific component of wine. Some of the variables we will be dealing with are alcohol level, residual sugars, quality, sulphates, total sulphur dioxide and volatile acidity. These variables were hypothesized to be a key determinant of wine quality based on each variable's scale. Based on this data set, the main research question is which variables determine the quality of the wine. We would also like to know if any of the variables are correlated, which would continue to further explain the relationship(s) between the independent variables and the quality variable, which is the dependent variable of this data set.

Because the data set was already clean, the project was clear to move on to the analysis portion. The log function of several variables was added into the data set to adjust for the skewed data in the variables. A Pearson correlation visual was generated to visibly see the correlation between the variables in the set. The main method being used for the model for this project is regression, more specifically, linear regression with multiple variables that are being run through it. After selecting to best features, or variables, the data was then split into independent and dependent variable sets and assigned their own variable. There were four linear regressions total that were run on this data set. Of these four, two resulted in a r-squared value of over 99%. This means that there were two sets of independent variables explained over 99% of the linear model, which is a good result of the model. The other two models had results of 0.3466 and 0.3839, which are fairly low, but not far off what was to be expected.

[Full Project with Code](https://github.com/ntiana55/Portfolio_NicoleAguilera/tree/main/AppliedDS/Project1)
